20230615_Plenary_Meeting

0:06
OK. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome. Good afternoon to everybody here in the room in liver cuisine and also online in teams.

0:17
We are today here to have a plenary session with a managerial executive stuff all over Germany. So this is something which is broadcasted everywhere because unfortunately not everybody can be here in this room. I'm happy to see so many colleagues here, so I'm really looking forward to have a good exchange with you.

0:41
We will do a recording of this today. Yeah. So after the event, we will put that on our website. So this will be available for everybody. And we are very curious what kind of information and responses we are getting today from all of you. We are doing this in English today. Yeah, this is an extraordinary session because it is just a Q&A session with no other specific topic and we want to accommodate the fact that our both guests are still on a learning curve.

1:10
Next time we may consider to do this in German. So this time we are doing this in English right away and we are looking really looking forward to that. And having said that, I'm really happy that we have two guests here today from the Board of Management, Serena Lynn, who you know all very well already, in particular in her role as a German labor Director and Bill Anderson, who is a new kid on the block as a CEO.

1:38
Bill and I had talked before a little bit and now he immediately jumped on this opportunity to get in touch with the, yeah, managerial colleagues community in Germany. He's very interested in sharing his perspective, his ideas, but also listen to us and get our perspective on certain things. We as experts and leaders in the organization, we really are the ones having a big role in driving things forward.

2:06
In addressing the challenges which are ahead of us, we all know about the financial economical situation, about the framework outside. So we are facing difficult times and I think no Bill has some ideas how to address that, how to move forward and he is really excited. This is what he told me to listen to us and to consider what we think and to answer your questions and and thoughts.

2:31
We will have a Q&A today, which is facilitated by some colleagues here, so you can ask questions in the room later on. So we have two colleagues here, Stefan Herman and Jana Shpura, who later on will guide you with some microphone. Yeah. So please, if you want to say something here, raise your hand, wait until you have a microphone in your hand. Otherwise, the colleagues online cannot hear you.

2:55
And all the other colleagues are invited to put some comments or questions already in the chat. We have Nadine Deeds and Bobbitt Heret who will take care of the online questions today. If you want to make life easier for all of us, you can indicate right away who shall respond to that question. Yeah, whether it's Serena or Bill or myself or all of us. So this would help us a little bit. But before we come to that Q&A session.

3:20
I really would like to give Serena the opportunity to start with some introductory words from herself and then hand over to Bill and ask you to share your first thoughts and impressions from Bayer now that you are a true member of Team Bayer. So Serena, welcome and thanks for spending your time. Floss yours absolutely. Well, thank you, Barbara, and good afternoon, everybody.

3:43
First of all, I thought Brava's instruction was very clear. This room has a limit of 250 people. We could have a lot more. So for those of you online, next time, please do join in person because I always find these meetings, as you know, especially after the pandemic, it truly nothing replaces having these in person human interactions. You get so much more energy.

4:03
And also so much more response. I mean just look at each of you. So the nonverbal cues is very, very obvious. So no, but in in all seriousness, it's it's great to be here. I think as you all know, I think these are the opportunities for us to have real good dialogues. We do live in uncertain times and I think especially all of you as managers, I think you are facing the unprecedented pressure both the mandates.

4:29
The responses, the performance expectations coming from the top as well as the team you lead, right. And we are entering into sort of uncharted territory in terms of what does it mean to be a manager? What does it mean to be a leader? How do you manage not only your team but also yourself in terms of your own excitement level, your energy and your career? So I'm sure you have a lot on your mind, but as Barbara say, this is an extraordinary session. It's not for me to talk, but really is for.

4:56
For for Bill to have the floor and share some of his thoughts. So with that I would just encourage you to absolutely ask your questions, be open because this is absolutely the opportunity to do that. So with that, I'll turn it over to Bill. Thanks. Thanks, Serena. And yeah, thanks all of you for being here and folks joining online. As Barbara mentioned, I was really excited to have a chance to interact with you all and hear what's on on your minds and and to share some of my.

5:23
Early impressions and thoughts and so yeah, I'm, I'm looking forward to that. As Barbara mentioned, I'm on the German language learning journey. You know I I have good days and then I have not as good days. You know I, I, my my wife Kathy and I are moving to the area and we've been she's learning German as well And so we've been working hard at it and we we managed to find a house.

5:51
A A place to live. We've been looking all around from Bond to Dusseldorf and all points in between. And so we found a place in Dusseldorf. And so I was telling one of my colleagues in the office, you know, yeah, hey, we found a house. And he said, well where where is it? And I said it's in the the do fertile. And he said where? And I said in the the do fertile. And he said where I said the do fertile. He said where. And I said, you know, Dusseltol. And he said.

6:21
Oh, too fertile. Yeah. Yeah. So that's kind of how it's going but hopefully it'll get you know it'll get better as as we go. No. But seriously I've I've really enjoyed my first I guess today is day technically speaking day 75 for me at the company and had an opportunity to see so much and meet so many people and I'm I'm really.

6:49
Amazed by a number of things, but I I'd say some that stand out the the businesses were in and the products that we're making, I mean just amazing stuff and you know the practical impact on billions of people daily. You know there's not very many companies that can say you're making a practical impact on billions of people daily and this company does that. You know, I was, I was at a farm in Brazil.

7:18
That's about twice the size of Luxembourg 1 farm. And you know, you think about it, this is a country that fed that couldn't feed itself 50 years ago and today they're feeding their own 200 million people, but they're feeding another 600 million besides that. And a lot of that is made directly possible by bear technology and and and that's, you know, there there's.

7:46
There's millions and millions of families around the world that have food to eat because of what we do that that counts for a lot. I've been really impressed by the by the caliber of people, the, the, the tenure and experience level of people and the commitment people have and the love people have for the company. That's a precious thing and a lot of companies have lost that and and and that's something that that's very important to me.

8:14
That we maintain we're going to have no doubt tremendous changes ahead of us but that's something that you you can never afford to lose. It's a it's a precious thing and I I think the the the degree of mission Orient orientation and and the degree to which people resonate with the mission and the mission resonates with people that's also outstanding. So this those have been.

8:43
You know, just some really favorable impressions I've had. I hear from people as I'm, as I travel about bureaucracy or hey, we can't get things done. And I have a long experience and in places that I've worked with those kind of challenges. I don't know if this sounds familiar to you from your experience at Bayer, but in my last company where I worked for about 16, 1/2 years.

9:13
There was a constant sound about this. You know for example we did survey kind of like the employee voice survey where every year we would get these results and the three lowest scores were usually decision making work processes and the specific question was the work processes here helped me to do a better job.

9:41
And that was one of the lowest rated questions. And the third one was about senior management. I have confidence in senior management. OK. We don't have that issue here. Yeah. Yeah. And and what's really interesting is that we noticed as you went around the world by the way, those three questions, they tend to track together and often, often I think the way I interpreted that was people said, hey, I like my manager.

10:08
But these work processes and decision makings all fouled up who who are those jokers running this place? You know that that that's that's kind of how it translated. But what was impressive was I knew we spent we spent 10 years working on that issue, on the decision making and work processes, 10 years of nonstop programs to get better decision making, faster decision making, delegate decision making.

10:38
And on work processes, we're going to kill bureaucracy. We're going to put the mission first. We're going to you know every year we're coming back at this and guess what the Guess what the scores in the surveys did the same nothing, right. And and and so I don't know if that sounds familiar to your experience but.

11:06
I would say this, if you think about it, we live in an increasingly dynamic world. And when I say dynamic, what do I mean it? The the world's turning faster in a way. You know, the the clock still moves at the same speed, but the rate at which change is happening has gone up a lot and that's not going to change, you know, with the advent of.

11:32
Of sort of the the latest generation of artificial intelligence tools and things that that's not going to change. And so when you're sitting there staring at lowest scores on things like decision making and work processes, that's an existential threat. Do you know that will literally determine which companies will succeed?

11:58
In a dynamic environment and which ones will will fall behind and ultimately fail? And I would think that would be very depressing, except that I've been fortunate to be around some people and to to have had some experiences that have have allowed me to see that you actually can change those things even in a large organization the size of bear.

12:25
That that work processes and decision making don't have to be the bottom scores and and that you can do it very differently and and so I'm excited to to work with you all to figure out how we do that here but yeah looking forward to the conversation.

12:45
Thank you, Bill, for giving you giving us your first impressions. And I'm pretty sure that there will be some questions coming up on what you just explained and and and outlined. So how to do this in a big company like us, What did you learn from your first experience in the past company, how to translate this in reality into a different body, into a different culture, into a different company, but this is something we are looking forward to work together. Yeah. So thank you very much. Also thank you Serena, for your introduction.

13:14
And then I think we can start with the questions from the audience and I'm looking around here in the room and Liver Cuisine in the Bacom and we have a first question down here, just wait for the microphone. Yana, thank you. Yeah, let me first thank you Bill for for saying that that you have confidence or that you actually believe that it's not inevitable that those low scores in the employee voice survey.

13:43
Need to stay that low and I I I tell you I'm also convinced that we can change that. Yeah. And and I think the key is that we really talk to the people. Yeah. And and collect feedback bring it upwards and but then also make sure that something comes back that we get into a real dialogue. But of course in order to foster this kind of speak up culture. Yeah we need to create a secure environment that people.

14:12
Feel secure to really tell you the problem. So I would like to ask you and also Serena, if there's one thing you could do to to create this or or enforce this secure environment, What? What would you do or change so that people feel more secure to really speak up and and and and tell us, for example, why they voted as they voted on on on certain topics or if there's something.

14:40
Really wrong that they dare to tell us. What would you change? And Serena as well. Please, no. Serena. You go. You go. I need time to think. I'm sure Bill has tons of examples. I'm sorry you didn't introduce yourself.

15:03
Mario Lobel from Biopharma Computation, Molecular Design. But I'm also a change ambassador. So this topic is really at my side. So you would have the answer then, right? I think he's an ambassador, right. So I think that's a trick question. You see, I knew it. I knew it. No. Thank you for that question, Mary and I think.

15:24
Many of you know that part of creating psychological safety, I think in our organization does start with the managers and leaders and inviting others to the table.

15:37
I asked for your name because I think that's a very small gesture for us to recognize. Everybody need to have a voice, and that has to be an equal voice. I do find our organization because a bit of the hierarchical nature of it. If you as a leader, don't invite others to the table and don't invite them to have a voice, it's hard for people to speak up. So if you think about how many of you have been doing hashtag Wow. All right. So some of you should be able to name at least one tool and hashtag Wow. That will help address that problem.

16:08
Anyone rounds, right? Simplest to ever, right? As a leader, as a manager, start with every meeting to say I want to hear from all of you, let's do rounds. What's on your mind At the end of the discussion, let's do rounds. What's on your mind? I think by you demonstrating it. By you inviting others to the table to have a voice. By you also making sure your role model so that people's voice don't get shut down. I think especially for some of.

16:36
Yeah, this is very We have a lot of female leaders here. For some female leaders, sometimes people feel that they get interrupted all the time, right? So as a leader, what you can do is making sure that they don't get interrupted and allowing them to finish their points and also recognizing for those who speak up. And I think those are small tools and tricks that all of us can do. And I'm addressing this specifically for this group because you are all managers. But the truth is, as you can imagine, these tools apply to everybody.

17:02
Because ultimately what is speak up That means every employee regardless of quote, UN quote, rank and title should say, yeah, I have a voice and I want to be able to contribute because that's what also add to my value in terms of why I'm here, right. So small tools, but I do, I would encourage you to absolutely role model, use tools like that to invite people to create a psychologically safe environment that people can speak of. Now Bill, that's enough time to think. That's a great answer. Well, you took all the best answers.

17:32
Well that's what we've been doing for the last two years. So it should be no surprise, right. To everybody. Yes. Yes. OK yeah. I I think and again I'm, I'm the new guy. So I I don't know what I don't know about the culture and and things. I I would just say humility needs to be just one of our foremost traits and that needs to be true for all of us. I mean, no, nobody has the answers.

18:01
You know in in this room we have experts in lots of different fields and and none of us is expert in everything and few of us are expert in in more than one things. And even the things we think we're expert in, we're often wrong still.

18:16
So I think just being willing to say to people, hey I, I get things wrong sometimes I get things right maybe that you know but but I'm, I'm, I'm wrong not infrequently. So I, I hope you'll feel free to tell me when you think I'm wrong. And and we got to listen to those things. Thank you very much for that question and for that response. And Bill, you can be sure that we will tell you it's good. It's good.

18:48
Is there any other question from the room here on this topic and any other topic? This is not the case. Oh, I see one, my name is Olaf Kunitz from Crop Science Finest Monheim. I just have a question. I think there recently you were meeting in Boston with the top executives, the top 70 leaders of the company.

19:10
Could you share there some discussion topics and initial results or action points which you took away from there? Thank you. Sure, sure. Yeah. Nice to see you. I hope I get to see you in in Monheim one of these days soon. I'm, I'm working on getting over there. It's too. I've been all around the world. I haven't made it to our backyard, so I got to got to get there. Yes, good point, good point.

19:38
And also Frankfurt, right. Let's see, yeah, GEC we had yeah, really interesting meeting the the the point was to kind of get an alignment on the situation. You know what do we see is our major opportunities and and threats and and then to talk about what you know what what are the alternatives.

20:04
To to take the company forward, we particularly spent a lot of time talking about different operating models, different organizational models because sort of to my opening comments, it's been my experience that you can only get so far with with a hierarchical model and.

20:29
A lot of the most dynamic companies on earth right now are the companies figuring out how to make the hierarchy a lot less prominent, to make the workflow around the mission rather than the workflowing around the org chart, and and really how to unleash the power of people at every level to make that very tangible.

20:57
In you know in large companies company of say 10,000 people, you often have 50 or 100 that are making 90% of the decisions about you know what work is being prioritized, who's doing the work, how much is being spent on on different work and you know maybe that's appropriate in some kind of business, but in businesses as complex.

21:25
And heterogeneous as Bayers that that will never work. In fact to kind of to to Mario's question about a speak up culture and about safety, one of the concepts is here, you know where is where does the knowledge reside and generally the most knowledge is in the people that are doing the job And so the question becomes how do you put the power for decision making in the hands of those people.

21:55
Instead of sort of clinging to this idea that somehow the the higher up you go in the organization the better the decisions we'll get. So we spent a lot of time talking about that We we had CEO's from two other firms come and share their experiences with very different operating models and and then I talked quite a bit about a model that that that I developed with colleagues in my last company.

22:25
Where we I think we made a lot of headway in sort of unleashing the power of people in the organization and and so the I would say at the at the end we we sort of asked people, we asked the leaders you know what do you think is the way forward, is it do do we continue to to try to make incremental improvements on the current setup.

22:52
Should we do some radically different thing splitting up the company something of that sort or should we try some some very different approach to organizing and the vast majority of people actually voted for the the last so which is interesting data you know we we don't we don't run the company by vote but but it's it's yeah.

23:20
So that that was encouraging that I think there was a high desire for improvement. If you know in my introductory comments I mentioned 10 years of the sort of survey results that didn't move despite all the best efforts. I think that with yeah, within a hierarchy model, once you've kind of done all the training, for example we train people, you shouldn't yell at people.

23:47
Right. You should have a nice work environment. You should encourage people to speak up. You should. Right you. We need to do all that. That's really important. People need to feel safe. They need to feel like they're respected. They need to feel like they're valued. But once you've done all that, if it still takes, you know, traveling up 8 layers of hierarchy to get a decision made, it's only going to get so good. You know, and and that's that's where I found myself seven years ago.

24:17
When I was when I was looking at those scores for the 10th year in a row and saying are we really going to spend another year trying the same stuff that didn't move the score this year with you know with a different name a different set of people working on it, but basically the same kind of tactics and and and that's when I I decided to sort of jump into the great unknown of.

24:41
Really radically different ways of organizing and and so yeah, I hopefully with to to talk a lot more about that together. Thank you. Hannes. Yeah. Hannes Coverling medicinal chemist in in Voportal and Farmer obviously. Yeah. I think there's two points I want to make regarding those decisions. To make them on the right level of I think is very important.

25:11
And sometimes there's a little bit of this hybrids hubris to believe that good scientists can make scientifically sound decisions in a split second. You give them a presentation of like 20 minutes on three years of research, and then they believe they can make a decision. Actually, what's really important is how good you present, how nice you look, how good your body with some of those guys and girls. And so there's this this idea, that decision making.

25:41
In committees and having a good workflow is efficient. I think that that's very dangerous because even the best scientists for the complexity of things we're broken on nowadays will take two day working days to start understanding what we're talking about. And if they don't have that time and they shouldn't, then it doesn't make sense. So that's one point I wanted to make and the other thing is I believe it's really important to.

26:08
Make decisions to now to communicate decisions properly and to to get the feedback to the people so in a way that they understand because very often we get a feedback which is 1 dimensional. This project was stopped for scientific reasons and very seldomly it's 1 dimensional. And I think we are all scientists and we can take a complex answer if you say because of the scientific risks that we.

26:35
Discovered recently in some talk study that are never black and white. The value of the compound compared to the dynamic market situation, which you also happen to reconsider a little bit, made this from its NPV slightly less attractive and we decided to put more of the money into our indexion instead keeping running this project. That would be an answer I'd love to hear in the future. Thank you.

27:06
So, yeah, sorry, I forgot to ask a question. It's all right. That's good. All good, all good. Thank you very much. I think we also have some questions online already. So maybe one question from here. What last one, Marina Vuduri from Bayer Pharma Bupertor in Berlin. First one comment on the bloy voice survey standard flat results, I believe that.

27:35
It's really important to receive this regular feedback rounds to help us receive essential information recalibrate and that enable us to keep up and stay flat. If we didn't have this feedback rounds most probably would have been much, much worse. So the changes that happening around us are really accelerating at a really fast pace and.

28:04
Most probably we're not able to keep up with this speed, but it's important to receive the feedback even if that it's flat because otherwise we will have been really, really at a worse situation. My question now is about the work processes that you mentioned at the beginning. Is there any work process platform concept that was really successful in the previous organization which is missing?

28:30
Maybe in our organization now and could be implemented successfully, maybe you had already some thoughts. Well, thank you. I think, yeah, thank, thanks for the question. And maybe I'll leave it to you to decide whether you think something like this could be successful. But what we had done a lot of was we looked at organizations and said.

29:00
First off and and again you you decide whether this is familiar to to you. You know, we we hire people from the best schools with the best education, the best grades, do you know the smartest people. And then we we bring them in and then we put 8 layers of management over them to tell them what to do. Not only do we do that, but we tend to break that. We we tend to categorize them into little pieces.

29:28
Like, oh, you're you're a, you're a finance person, you're an accounting person, You're a, you name it, right? As if somehow the thing you studied in school for four years is what you are. By the way, how many times have you seen this? In fact, I had someone visited me earlier today in my office, and I I was asking them to work on a project that's outside of the function they're in right now.

29:52
And part of the reason I was asking them to do this was because I knew that they had worked in other functions before and I was confident that they would have the skill set. And so when I asked him about it the the first response he he was very surprised because but he was very grateful because he was like oh so you don't think I'm I'm just this but but we you know so we we categorize people we we put them under lots of layers of management.

30:20
And then we wonder why things take a long time to get done or why change that everyone thinks ought to happen doesn't happen and we often think we just need to try harder. We just we just need to train a little more. We just need to and and where I where I arrived after 25 years at work I I said, you know I don't think trying harder is going to do it.

30:49
We don't just need to be a little smarter next year than we were this year. The system is broken. It doesn't work. So. So what do you do about that? The, the, the first thing we did we we some of you may have heard of this but we we we had a team we said what what are the processes that people find most unsatisfactory, any volunteer you know.

31:20
Come on, procurement. What else? Ouch. What's the biggest, biggest, least popular process of the year? Thank you. The budget. Okay. So we said, you know, the budget. It's the it's the most unpopular, most frustrating thing. And by the way, we've been through this where, oh.

31:44
The budget process takes 5 months a year, by the way, Sometimes the budget process takes 13 months a year, right? But you know, it took five months a year. How can that be? If it's if it's going to be so bad, at least let's only have it take three months a year, right? So we we get it to three months a year and then time goes by 3-4 years pass. How long does it take? Yeah, or six, six months, Right. So. So having seen this story play out a few times.

32:14
We, we, we picked some of our smartest people from finance and from other organizations and we said we need you to come up with a new budget process that is empowering, that takes much less time and energy, that's less bureaucratic, less hierarchical. You know, we're confident you can do it. And so we sent them off and they came back in six weeks and they had a proposal.

32:41
It was going to be shorter, faster, fewer meetings. But we said we've seen this before. Do you know, we. Yeah, it's not good enough. You know, go, go, go, try again. So they went away. They came back six weeks later, they had another additional changes. And in the middle of that and I think we were about to say that's not good enough because we realized it wasn't good enough.

33:11
There was a realization amongst several of the leaders, it's not, it's not this budget process or that budget process. It's it's just that whole setup. And so we decided that day we're going to kill budgets. So say, well, what what does that look like? You know, there's no, but we said there's no budget, no budget. Everyone in the company, your job is to.

33:40
Drive, drive medical advances, thrill customers and patients and take best care of the company's money. Go do those three things and we'll talk about how you did later. So no, you don't have a target. There's no target. But it doesn't mean there's no accountability, just means the accountability comes at the end. So when we did that, what what do you think happened to expenses? They went down.

34:10
Right, because Because what What happens if if you're running, who's running a cost center? Yeah, almost everyone. What's your name? Sure. Yep. Leah, do you have a cost center? All right, wait, who has a cost center over here? Oh, now no one does. Please.

34:41
Awesome. So Petra's got a cost center. So Petra, if let's say that this year you needed 10 million to to run your cost center. Next year you don't have so much going on, so you only need 5,000,000, but the year after is going to be a really big year. So you need 15, OKOK. So So what? So how much you going to ask for next year?

35:06
Wait for the microphone, please. Yeah, for next year you only need 5, but you need 15 the year after. So how much you going to ask for? So I will ask first for 20 because I know that the May I then I gave 10. So yeah, so that's normal. And I think that is also sometimes a problem because you ask for something that you know that you never need at the end.

35:32
Yeah, yeah. So I just illustrate that because we all know these processes are full of gaming and silliness and. Right, so, but we. So we killed budgets in year one, expenses went down OK. In year two, what do you think happened? They went up, yeah, because people said, well you know, last year was great, but it would be even better if I just had one more person.

36:00
And if everybody who has say 10 people got one more person, that's a 10% growth in headcount and it'd be even better if I had two more people, right. So, So we said we, we killed budgets. We didn't think that was the ultimate solution. We we said this is an important experiment to let's see what happens and and then we'll go from there. Where do we end up we.

36:28
It's this is. I mean I'm trying to answer your question. I'm not maybe I'm not doing a very good job of it. We said, we said we need a system that where there's no gaming, where there's a dynamic flow of resources.

36:48
So that if somebody needs 5,000,000 this year or this quarter and they need 10 million that they get it, you know, but then if they only need 2,000,000 the year year after it comes out. See our current system doesn't do that. I mean who, who? The person who has a 10 million budget this year, they're not going to say, well I only need 2,000,000 next year because they know they'll never get it back. So we need a system where where resources flow, where talent flows.

37:17
Where there's no gaming, where people have what they need, when they need it and you could say well is that really possible or we just stuck with the the current system so we introduced a system where first thing we did is we we put everyone in in in teams and so for example in a country.

37:41
You you might have A and this was a pharmaceutical business, so I'll use that as an example. And you might have a neurology, A neurologist team, an oncologist team, an ophthalmologist team. So, so teams that are representing various customer groups. You might have a product access or market access team that's working on reimbursement and with insurance companies and things you might have a clinical trials team.

38:09
That's operationalizing the important trials in the country. And so we basically divided the whole country up into teams based on the mission impact. So we need to make a mission impact in in neurology, in clinical trials. So we we divided the whole company up into mission impact teams. The functions were still there, the org chart is still there, but they go, they fade into the background, everybody's on these teams and every 90 days.

38:38
The team comes together. The members of the team come together and say what is the most important thing for us to accomplish in the next 90 days. They they have one representative from the team that goes to a meeting with representative from all the other teams. And they and they present, hey, here's our top priorities for 90 days, here's our top priorities for 90 days. And they look at it all together and they debate what's most important overall.

39:06
And they may say, wow, the neurology team, they're launching a new molecule and it's really important that this be done right. So all the other teams, we're going to send two people over to the neurology team and. And so basically they make those decisions, the talent flows and they work for 89 days to achieve those goals. On day 90, they come together and do it again.

39:36
Every 90 days, 10 to 15% of the organization is moving. So you don't have the setup where you you have this extreme static setup and then you you, you wake up one day and you realize we have 30% too many people. And we have to, we have to lay people off because the teams are flowing, the talents flowing. There's there's no room for gaming because you're not asking the boss for money.

40:06
If if you need more resources, you're asking your colleagues, you're not asking the boss. And one of my favorite sayings is you can fool your boss but you can't fool your peers. Would you believe that? OK, so I want to suggest to you that if you really want to change things and you really want to see process improvement and and decision making improvement, you have to. You have to.

40:37
Get rid of a lot of old assumptions about how the world works and and so that's been sort of the adventure I've been on for the last seven years or so. So do you do you think any of that could be applicable at Bayer? Wait, wait, hold on a minute. We'll get you a mic.

41:04
With some also calibration, I believe that could be also a reality for buyer. No doubt about it. There will be reactions definitely. Maybe some education also is necessary at the beginning. Also other processes maybe have to be updated like performance reviews, compensation in parallel. But as long as this are secured, I believe that everyone will we will agree with these changes definitely.

41:34
Yeah, you mentioned performance reviews and I know that's been a topic of a lot of discussion and debate. I find the same thing is true. You know I mentioned about you can fool your boss but you can't fool your peers. So one experiment that I've that I've seen done is you you basically say First off you don't need as many managers in a system like I described.

42:01
Because the teams are much more self organizing. If you have fewer managers, it's hard to assess because for example, let's say someone's in charge of a function, but they've got people distributed on all these teams, so they're not seeing their their people's performance on a daily basis because they're dispersed all throughout the organization.

42:27
So you could question well how easy can the managers assess their performance and and So what you do instead is you say the team members assess performance so every 90 days the team members if there's twelve people on a team they they rate their 11 colleagues maybe a simple system where they someone gets A1 if they're a strong strong contributor to the team.

42:57
If they're if they're really letting the team down they get a zero and if they are just at the top maybe the the the the the the peak performance they get a two and maybe each person can only give one two per per 90 days so you you really know that's right and and so every 90 days they people get a number it's it just is what it is it's data.

43:25
It's not. It's not perfectly objective because it it it's from people's perceptions. But it's the people who've been working with them every day, the people that are counting on them. And and and one of the things you find is people tend to be a little more confident in that kind of rating than a rating from a manager. Because it is what it is. Yeah. Thank you.

43:55
Thank you. Very interesting concepts. I see that there is a question online into Barbeta's microphone in her hand already. Yeah, we have actually plenty of questions and we have also plenty of participants online just to give you a number 950 participants online. So feels that we're few here, but you know the majority is out there and eager to hear you. And we'll start with an easy one for Bill. Hi, Bill, thanks for being here today.

44:25
I'm sorry, I have a code and decided to be online, so good practice. Could you share behind the door? How is your office? Are you in open space? Will you be moving around the building so employees can chat with you? Yeah, I have. Yeah, I'm in open space. And yeah, it's great I I find the office a little stifling.

44:54
And a little I yeah, I sit across across from my assistant and yeah, it's a it's a nice it's a nice vibe. How about that? I wish. I wish I had something really profound to say about it. But I have a wooden desk, you know, it looks a lot like this. And I don't know, yeah.

45:17
And and I've I've, yeah, I've moved a couple times in 75 days. But I I'm a creature of habit. So I kind of come back to the same spot. Maybe I'll sit in Serena's desk tomorrow and see what It would be kind of fun. Yeah. Yeah, that would be kind of fun. Yeah. I guess the oh, am I going to move around? Yeah.

45:37
Yeah. You know, it's funny in in I've worked in the new working environments where, you know, there's no assigned desks. And what I found is I would come in in the morning and I would sit down somewhere and there would be people sitting around me, you know, And I would come and sit there and everyone would say, oh hi, hi, say hi, hi, right. And then over the course of the day, I would notice that everyone would leave, you know, so.

46:04
I was like I I get the feeling that people don't really like sitting next to me or something. So so I I don't know I I mean, I could do that. But I I do walk around the building a lot, so I you know, I get to say hi to people in the halls and yeah, yeah, yeah. This is perfectly to the next question, which already was answered a little bit because you you recognize processes or behaviors, which may should change or which you really recognize specially so.

46:34
The question here is what kind of practices, processes and behaviors you recognized your first 75 days already, which should immediately be stopped at Bayer. That's a little it's a little bit of a hard one because you probably could appreciate I'm not very close to the sausage making.

46:59
By the way, I'd love that I get to say that in Germany, you know, I've been saying that for a long time. But it in fact, I went when we first moved to, we got a temporary apartment in Dusseldorf. And then when we found our house in the Zufertov, how was that? Did you understand? Not so much. OK, we were like, hey, what are these stores around here? What kind of shopping is there?

47:24
And so we, we noticed there was this big store near us that says Metro and we're like, I wonder what that is. So we, we, my wife and I, we pulled into the parking lot. We went in and and we're trying to go in and they're like hey you, you can't go in. And so in in my, in my weak German, I, I had a conversation with the guy and I figured out, yeah, you have to own a business or something so.

47:54
So anyway, I told him, I said, well we're new and we don't, you know, we're new to Germany, we're new to, can we just go look around? And he said, yeah, fine, but you can't buy anything. So when we went in.

48:09
And I was really impressed with this place, but especially the size of the sausage department. I mean, the sausage department in the Metro is about the size of this auditorium. I didn't know there were so many kinds of sausage. It's it's amazing. It's amazing. But I actually, seriously, I do have to get a Metro card somehow.

48:33
Because the the meat department was really and I and my I have a hobby of grilling and things. What was the question things we should immediately stop at Bayer. So there was this Curry sausage. It was stopped sometimes after Corona, I think in the in the casino. So that was not good. Yeah. No, I think often someone in my position, I don't get a very good view.

49:00
On what processes are working and what aren't working because people try to clean things up so that everything you know looks looks good or something. I would just say we have to, we have to have principles to enable simplification, you know, For example, one of the things that I did in my in my last job, I noticed that a lot of times.

49:27
There's sort of 100 things that people think we need to do when really the things we need to do are the things that that the mission demands. And so we need to, we need to get better at saying we're going to do what the mission demands, that top prioritize things that the mission demands and and everything else is just going to kind of fall away. And that's one of the reasons that I really like this idea of a dynamic process, for example, in.

49:56
Have you ever noticed when you're on a team, you know you get together once a year to make goals for the year, right? And one person says, oh, we should do this, and someone else says we should do that. And now we oh, but we got to do this and we got to do that right? And so you end up with this list of 12 things, and it's sort of like everybody got their thing, but nobody's very satisfied with the list.

50:22
And when you have a system like the one I described, you realize we only have 90 days. 90 days goes really fast. And so we can only work on the the top two or three things every and. And so you basically vote in your little group and you vote what what are the top two things, top three things and then all the other things, they're still on the list.

50:50
And they get a shot again 90 days from now. But what happens is when you do this and you prioritize very very rigorous rigorously a lot of stuff, the lower priority stuff, it just kind of falls out and it turns out in 90 days or 180 days people have kind of forgotten about that and and so I I it's not a very specific answer to the question but but.

51:19
You have to find a way to really prioritize and and to and to focus in on things and when you do that and you do it frequently you can you can make a lot more progress. Serena, you've you've been around the world and worked in different environments but but you've also been at Bayer. What what what what are things you think we should get rid of. You know we've been asking that question for the last two years as you all know and.

51:48
I think I will probably come at the two angles. There is probably a set of processes that we absolutely still need to look at from a group level and ask a question. Do we really need this? Can we simplify this? How many Margos do we have at the organization? 84, Is that a definitive answer now? All right, I I think we have a Margo expert in the room. Thank you for that. So 84 Margos.

52:14
84 Margos, I think that the question really comes back to how many of them are truly necessary 12 OK, that that's a good, OK, very good. So in other words, we could probably kill 72 of the Margos tomorrow. And I would say, you know Bill is already initiating the question of what are some of these things that we could do without putting the company at risk.

52:41
And to be Margo is probably one of those perfect examples. And I'll tell you, last year I had, it's really interesting. So in my role as head of HR, I got a Margo that says here's a training policy I don't like. Yeah. And that's 12 pages long. I said, what's a training policy? Well, you know, there's some mandatory training, there's some voluntary training. And this is how training should be defined. And at the end of the day, I still don't know exactly what that Margo is about. I said, so why do we write a Margo like that? Right. And.

53:08
There's lots of explanations why those need to be done, but at the end of the day, you say now, if we don't have this, would this put the company in jeopardy? If we don't have this, would that stop training? If we don't have this, would that stop employee development? The answer is no to any of those. So why do we have employees taking the time and effort to write a Margo that no one reads?

53:31
So to me, that's one of those things that I think that we should actually take on and say how do we review that? OK. So there's a number of things like that I think at the corporate level that we should actually look at it structurally and say, let's reduce those. But I would also say though, because the stories I hear actually from many of you over the last two years is you know what's really interesting about process or following process or too many processes, I would say probably maybe 30% of them are those that set in stone and written in rules.

54:00
The other 70% are actually unwritten processes that people somehow follow because they said that's how it's being done up to this point, right? I mean, I see some of you nodding your heads, especially when I travel and I talk to people outside of Germany outside of Labor cruising specifically, OK. And you asked them, so you all talk about workloads. So tell me, what's the workload that you think we should reduce and they'll give you some specific examples. And then?

54:28
50% of the time they will say, well this is what labor cruise and tell us that we need to do. I said who labor cruise and tell you that. And then they will say, I don't know, maybe the bomb. I said, you know what I said in the bomb for the last two years, I never remember us ever talking about it. So who is it that tell you to do this again? And you realize that a lot of these are sort of unknown rules and processes that people put end up putting on themselves or putting on the teams partly is maybe to protect themselves.

54:55
Partly is maybe they did hear from somebody, from neighborhoods and from the end of the team members they say you ought to do this, but no one ever challenged why. So those are not. So if you say, gosh, what process to kill these are, these are not written anywhere. So how do you kill those? The way to kill those is ultimately comes back to you and really everyone in the organization that says help me understand why am I doing this? What's the value of this and what's the worst it could happen if I don't do it?

55:24
And the good news is I think over the last two years I'm getting a lot of examples big and small where people say yeah that's exactly what we did. You know so Brazil, one of the you know our one of the the CDH is send a note to me and say hey guess what you know approval process from 11th step that we killed it down to two. We have 1 SBR in the Nordics that you know the first day I got on you know and I saw my e-mail with 30.

55:48
Expense reports, I have to approve and I don't know any of them, so why do I need to approve them? So I basically say you approve your own expense reports going forward. I said perfect. Those are exactly the examples that you should do. The bottom line is I actually think that you have more control than you think, but you got to be able to take that courage to say I'm not going to do this because I based on my professional judgment, I know this is not going to jeopardize anyone nor is there any valid efforts to do so. And you should absolutely feel empowered to do that. Okay.

56:17
So you hope that answer the question. Thank you very much. I would like to add to that because it's certainly worth looking into that and now we strive for years to do and focusing on on, on processes and things which are necessary. We fail to run the business in a specialized organization. You may need to have more of these things written down than in other organizations. But we live in a very highly regulated environment. There are certain things.

56:40
We cannot ignore. Yeah. So compliance is giving us the license to operate. Yeah, we have all experienced in particular here in Levikusen what it means if FDA comes in and shuts the facility down for some time, heavy financial impact, heavy impact on everything. So compliance is important.

56:56
So at the end of the day, it's certainly kind of a balanced question. What is really needed? What is not needed back in? People just decide on what needs to be done without fixing the process in words. But on the other hand, there are certain basic things we should not touch. So if I could get your perspective on that. Absolutely. I mean, that's why Margo, we're not killing all Margos, right. Yeah, That's why you said talk. Thank you for that, because absolutely, you're absolutely right. But that's why I said.

57:21
You know, to me, is this legal? Is it ethical? Right. Is it compliant? I mean, those are the basic professional judgment that we all need to have, that's for sure. But if I may give you another example, I was actually a Deutsch. I was at Deutsch Telecom the other day. We had some gathering with some of the senior leaders there and Deutsch post their CHRO was there. So we're starting to talk about, Gee, what are you doing to help employees to really have a more digital experience?

57:49
So they say well very simple. Number one, we got rid of all company issue devices because Deutsch points DHL. As you know majority of their their employees are actually drivers, they're truck drivers, they're on the road, they don't have a company issued PC or computer. So they all have a personal phone and then they have a company app on their personal phone where they do everything right from route scheduling to expense reports to rewards and real time recognitions.

58:19
I said, how do you do that? Because I know that in our world that's not allowed, right. I said no, we solved it. I said, how do you solve privacy issues? Do you do that including in Germany too? Yeah, yeah, we do it around the world. I was thinking, Oh my gosh, if Deutsch Post can do that.

58:35
And we can there got to be something wrong, right. So, so to me you you are absolutely spot on that we got to make sure we have to stay compliant, ethical, legal. I mean to me that's the bottom line. But I will say even with that balance line, let's challenge ourselves how do we think out-of-the-box and say no, we need to do this but we can be better at you know the the current status that we're in. It's interesting.

59:03
Because when when I was doing some of these innovations in my last role that was a frequent question like hey, we're we're regulated by the EMA, the FDA. You know the frankly if if you look around the company, we have a lot more agencies than those that regulate us. You know, obviously crop science is a whole different set. Then we have transportation agencies that regulate the fleet and all this.

59:32
When I was looking into this again seven years ago when I started on this journey, I was asking you know well what kind of companies are doing this is this possible for a for a pharmaceutical company to to do this kind of thing. And I found there was a a very innovative utility company that's running among other things running nuclear power plants and I'm thinking wow you know how can you and and it turns out you know they still have like the ten step.

1:00:00
Formula for for shutting down the nuclear reactor in the event of an emergency. You know that that's not an area for experimentation. OK. But. And and so you can absolutely experiment and innovate even in a highly regulated place. You just have to know what are the things you you can you can experiment with and which ones can't you. So yeah, yeah, it's very interesting in that. I'm excited to work with you on that. So, yeah, Stefan.

1:00:30
Yeah, thanks bro. Now a question from the front yard, I'm Stefan from Monheim and Frankfurt. And just as a question about these margots, isn't the real problem of of these rule sets that they actually serve more than one purpose? One purpose is to make the company legally safe because all the potential issues and the potential solutions are in it. The other thing is.

1:00:54
Which will give us some guidance and the language for that is just not appropriate because a lot of people just cannot read legalese. So one of the solutions could actually be, let's have different user interfaces for the same content, one for the users and one for the application developers or the lawyers. Yeah, maybe, maybe. But I would say this the most dynamic companies in the world.

1:01:24
Rely intensively on principles rather than rules and frankly, from what I see of the people of Bayer, I think we this is a very principled place. So I think that.

1:01:45
He's always tempting to sort of try to rewrite the rules to make them clearer, or to post them in better places, or to create some sort of, you know, internal Google search capabilities so you can look up the rules better. But, you know, this has been studied a lot. Basically, once you get past a few paragraphs of rules, you lose 95% of people.

1:02:10
You know and and if you if you if we had a 20 page rule manual for the company that would probably be too much Okay. If it's if it's hundreds of pages or thousands of pages, it's it's generally useless And so we you know, we we have to we don't you know think of it this way many of us have families and hopefully our families are.

1:02:38
You know, they're they're working. Okay. They're not too chaotic. But we don't. I hope most of us don't have like 100 page rule books for our family. You know, we we count on trust. We count on principles. And and and one of the ironic things is if you if you turn an org chart on its side, you make much more pure accountability. The need for rules goes way down.

1:03:03
Because you're yeah, you're you're with a with a set of peers there's cross functional knowledge people have different expertises and and yeah so I I I think that's probably the direction we have to go. But you know we'll have some good dialogue about it. Thank you. Bye bye.

1:03:25
Yes, First of all, Bill, good news for you. Bazia says you can go with me to the Metro. I have an access card, actually, what I really want to know from from him, her, her is how she got it. And yeah, can I talk about, can I do afterwards? OK, now a more serious topic. And there are.

1:03:56
A few questions to that. So All in all we still have here on line 44 questions, so we could spend probably all evening here. But one topic is very close to everybody's heart. Recently the Consent Special also started a survey with the topic Performance Excellence. To my knowledge, the survey is finished in the meanwhile and the corresponding results are present.

1:04:22
Are there already conclusions available out of the survey and what are the corresponding measures? I guess that's one question probably to Serena and maybe Barbara. And then there is another question here among the many questions to that topic that clearly addresses Bill, what is your take on performance management?

1:04:47
I can give it a start. Yes, the results are available. They have been shared with all of you. We are so all the numerical results and we have explained a little bit of how we see the outcome in the kind of talk as a plenary session offer for QA. To everyone here it's very clear that this is a very important feedback, a very important opinion, not just the numerical ones, but also what you all have put and written into the written comments. There's.

1:05:15
A lot of interesting perspectives and views and some ideas also as well how to how to approach perhaps slight adjustments whatsoever changes to to what has been intended or what has been rolled out worldwide. And these results have been shared and discussed of course with HR, with Serena and Turner they're they're currently being looked at would say that way and we are in talks and we will continue to talk about it, look into that jointly.

1:05:42
And well, it's I think important input. This is a feedback we already got from our counterparts here in HR and also from Serena. So it's highly valued, you know, your opinion. But now we are looking at this jointly and trying to find a path forward. So yeah, I I know I think Barbara, I think Barbara summarized that well. This is absolutely important for us to get the feedback from you all. And also keep in mind and you all know this, we implement this last year.

1:06:12
Without Germany. So we also got a lot of feedback from the rest of the world of how the system worked. And I'll tell you a couple highlights. As you can imagine, the opinion indeed is very wide. You absolutely have managers. That said, we appreciate the fact that we can really differentiate and truly reward people for performance again and for especially from some of the highly competitive markets such as US, China people jumped on that, right.

1:06:40
You also have managers who share similar reservations or concerns, as some of you have shared here in Germany to say, gosh, you know, I'm concerned about how can I reward my people fairly if I am forced to differentiate them based on the spectrum. By the way, would that also create bad behavior which we absolutely don't want, which I know that many of you have bad experiences from the previous system, right, so.

1:07:04
So we are indeed taking a lot of these into account because we want to make sure I think there's a couple of principles. One is at the highest level, especially for us as a global company and many of us work in global teams. I think we generally agree together with special issues is to say to the extent we can, let's have some sort of global consistent framework. Otherwise we will create a bit of a chaos among managers, among those those of you who say, gosh, you know, here's one system, here's a different system that doesn't make sense, We are global company. Let's find a global framework.

1:07:35
At the same time, we also know that some of the concerns that you raised were real. So we need to find a way of addressing them, right? So that's exactly what we are together with special issues and working very closely to say what's the opportunity for us to address this, maintain those, maintain those high principles of global framework, OK, and making sure that the concerns at the minimal can be addressed. Still hearing.

1:08:00
Yeah, everybody's input also globally from those who actually really like the system. OK. So and that's the two sides of the balance that we have to balance. Having said that, I think you also just heard from Bill and I should turn over to Bill to to talk about this and you already heard but from Bill alluding to potentially you know for us to maybe even move to something that's very different from the system that we're experimenting now and I think you know in the spirit of agile and be able to really move to that empowered.

1:08:29
System, we probably need to continue to look at this and this by the way, if you recall, you know a year ago when we put the system in place. That's why we also tell the organization we know that this is not going to be perfect, especially giving that Germany was not on board at the time that we got to have to continue to learn and experiment. But we obviously need to make the changes manageable because otherwise you as managers would end up always being in this loop or trying to figure out what it is. How do I make sure I treat my people fairly? That's also not fair to you.

1:08:58
So that's kind of the pace of change we need to manage so that you have opportunity to digest it, you have opportunity to really internalize it so that you can then use that in a very fair way with your team. OK. So that's where we are. Bill, you want to share your views on that? Yeah, sure. First I would say if I, if I look back over my how long 34 years of work, I would say companies.

1:09:26
Have spent way too much time and energy on this topic for for the benefit that's derived. Do you know it's like how many people get out of bed in the morning because hey, I'm going to go and get that 1.1 multiplier on my on my bonus this year. Do you know it's it's?

1:09:50
There are certain jobs where incentive compensation is a big deal. In sales, it tends to be a big deal. But for most jobs, that's just not why people are doing a great job or not doing a great job. It has very little translation and it's, it's and so.

1:10:16
You know, it's funny. The surveys that have been done over time on why people stay at a company, why people leave a company, why people are motivated, why people are demotivated like bonuses and incentive comp is is like way down the list. So the fact that it generates, well, I would say often so much more heat than light. That ought to tell us something and and we shouldn't keep throwing ourselves against that wall.

1:10:47
When there's an opportunity to do something different and and and so probably my current thinking because I've I've been I've seen a lot of different efforts at this over the years but probably what I would do but this isn't by the way don't don't say oh this is what we're going to do it bear but if you just asked me what would I do. By the way the reason I I distinguish that is I I'm not that kind of leader where I say well this is what we're going to do I I think we we.

1:11:16
We figure this out together, but if you just asked me to design the system I would go with peer peer ratings rather than manager ratings. I would not hardwire it to the bonus payout because what you find is if you if you.

1:11:37
If you hardwire it so so that if somebody gets a, I don't know, 1.1 rating, they get this amount of money. If somebody gets a .9, they get that amount of. When you when you hardwire it, it kind of it sort of electrifies the system. It becomes less psychologically safe. And what you really want with the ratings from their peers is to kind of know how am I doing, you know how am I contributing to the team and that if it all becomes about.

1:12:06
Oh, it's about how many, you know what my bonus is. Then it you you lose something that's very valuable there. So I would probably have peer ratings, I would have the bonus administered by the managers but informed by the peer ratings of course. And I would never do a forced distribution because forced distributions they they just they create a lot of kind of rough situations. Do you know if you have.

1:12:35
You have 5 people and two of them are excellent, but I have to give excellent people 125. Then I have to make the good people .9 or whatever. You know, it's it, it's it's not healthy. Better. Hey, if I have 5 people and two of them did great and three of them did very well, then you know, maybe the people who did great have a little higher bonus and the people who did.

1:13:03
A little less great, you know, a little lower, but it's not so charged and so kind of weaponized. And then the last thing I would do is I would always set the pool over 100 because, you know, yeah, it's it's just psychology. This is, you know, people think of it this way, if you give somebody a bonus of 1.1, they're like, hey, great, thanks.

1:13:31
And then about 5 minutes later, they're on to the next thing. If you give somebody a bonus of .9, they're they're they're thinking about that for months. And so why do we do this to people and do this to ourselves? That that's, these are kind of my views. But as you can see, we still have a lot to talk about at the bottom.

1:14:06
Nadine, so there's another question where you may give us some, some, some reason to again get a applause here. So how can we manage to get a higher share price? Well, there there's, there's a lot we have to do and.

1:14:31
If you think about what what are the things that are hold that hold the share price down, I would say there's the there's the debt level, there's the legal overhang there's the pharma LOE's and there's sort of the conglomerate discount, the famous conglomerate discount and and so you you kind of have to go at those one by one.

1:15:01
Right. We we have to be very smart and in managing the litigation outstanding risks and I I think we have a great team on that and we're we we're building a very strong winning track record with seven you know seven wins in a row and glyphosate and we got to keep doing that and we we yeah we we got to fight hard because there's a lot of.

1:15:29
Folks who want to who want to see Bayer as deep pockets and take the the money that we would use to to develop new lifesaving medicines or important new crops and and and and take that from us and so we got to you know we have to fight that hard on the on the debt the the main way to deal with that is to perform and to pay it down. So we've got to do that on the pharma LOE's you know those of you who are in the pharma area you know.

1:15:58
Today's Loe or today's Loe situation is something that was created in the years in the past. Do you know you we can't, we can't just snap our fingers and make new revenues appear overnight. So we've we've got to, we're going to, we're going to have to take our costs down and and that's not just a pharma question. I know there's been a lot of cost reductions at Bayer over the the last.

1:16:27
Five years, probably more than that. But I would say this, I've I've been involved in cost cutting work for 20 years. And you have a whole different advantage in going at it if you have a different operating model. Because I find it very frustrating to take out costs within the hierarchical operating model because when you take them out you tend to know.

1:16:56
They're going to come back because if you take the if you take the jobs out but you don't take the work out then then everyone just has to work harder or you know or basically you end up with temps or hiring people back and and that's that's that's that's not what what leadership what great leadership looks like you you have to create processes like the ones I described that allow.

1:17:25
People to make decisions without 8 layers of management and and that that has two big effects. It makes everything go faster. You get faster progress on the things that matter and it costs a lot less money because you have a lot fewer hands touching it on on the way so that you know that's a big part of of tackling the debt issue.

1:17:48
And and the Loe and and weathering that storm while the pipeline continues to get fortified and and while we have new product launches catching up. And then and then it comes to the conglomerate discount, you know the famous conglomerate discount and I would say on that it's you could say is it fair, is it not fair.

1:18:12
And and what I would say is if you're, if you're a business with or if you're a company with multiple businesses, then you either are going to have some disadvantages or you better have some special sauce, right, because inherently it's simpler to operate a single business, you know it's and and simplicity in life it, it tends to make better.

1:18:41
And so if you're going to operate a a multibusiness company, you better have some reason to believe that that that's actually going to give you an advantage over having a single business. And I'll leave it to you to decide whether we have that advantage today. But I would say if if you want to be sure about it, you better have an operating model that's better than what other companies have.

1:19:08
And and there are companies like that in the world. Do you know what one of the companies that's been very successful in the last 30 years is Amazon And while they're, you know their their culture and things is very different than Bayer and it's very different than my style. But one thing I note is that they have a a track record of spinning off not when I say spin of creating new businesses within their enterprise.

1:19:37
You know, people don't, people in the cloud computing division of Amazon don't say, oh, why are we attached to this headquarters? You know, this this company's inefficient and all the processes and they're they're like, wow, this is working. So there's something there that is really important that they, they have a model where a new business is actually better being part of the whole than it would be if it was on its own.

1:20:05
And we have to if if we want to thrive as a multi business company we we have to find that in in ourselves and and that's where it comes back to things like the the work processes. You know if your work processes score is low you probably don't have much business being in multiple businesses. Better to simplify and at least give the you know the the independent businesses the chance to do that but.

1:20:34
I think it's possible to have that kind of of special sauce and but but that's a that's a journey. That's a big thing. Thank you. Just looking in the room but I think we still have a lot oh, we also have some some hands up here. Let's start with my bed 1st and then I come to Lena and then to the other one. OK. There are two questions that I would like to read because they're somewhat connected.

1:21:03
First question, some of us here in Germany, who have been very committed to this company for decades, get more and more concerned about tendencies to move important functions or production facilities from Germany to somewhere else in the world for cost reasons. What is your message to us by our employees here in Germany? And then the other one is first time that I ask an anonymous question in my long.

1:21:32
Career at Bayer. My nose is at the window. I am, as we speak, expanding my external network, contacting old bosses, headhunters, because I don't see future at pharma. What would we make stay at Bayer? Food. Food for thought. Food for thought. What did you think about the first question? Thanks, Bill.

1:22:03
What was the first question again? Yeah. What is the future of the German science space? Yeah, yeah, that's right. So, no. Well, anybody know where I was this morning? What was I doing this morning? Patrice Katz for Anstat and Vuppatar, So at the API site. So Patrice Fazamlo Vuppatar.

1:22:31
And the most important message that I typically share when I go to the Patrice as I'm loan, especially you know at the sites such as Wilbert Hall is to say let me give you the context of why especially as a foreigner coming into Germany, coming into this role, why do I believe in the future of Germany Okay and how do we talk about it objectively and realistically?

1:22:54
Because ultimately and the bottom line is actually this right, the bottom line is if you look at Germany the the truth is Germany should never and will never be competitive from a cost basis doing some of the jobs it doesn't make sense. For example, IT service, I don't envision us ever because competitive of having huge customer service call centers here in Germany compared to a lot of other worlds nor will we find the best talents by for doing that.

1:23:24
So the question really is what's the source of competitives for Germany and how do we really amplify those. And the truth is there are many because if you look at what pharma is trying to do here in Germany, whether it's the same, look, you know what we think about cell and gene translation centers here in Germany, that's an area that we shall leverage the resources, the talent, the patents, that's actually the innovation that's coming out from the both the academia as well as from companies to say we got to do a better job at.

1:23:50
Really keeping that because that's a source of innovation that's unique to Germany as well as only a few countries in the world. That's 1/2 is events manufacturing and technology. I mean, those of you in pharma know that we are building events manufacturing and Santos in terms of cell therapy here in Germany, actually in Opatow. Why? Because we believe we have the technology and the understanding of it, right. So the alpha launch plan is one of the.

1:24:16
Going to be the one of the most advanced projects in this and we should feel very, very proud of them, right. So to me the challenge and the opportunity is to continue to find the unique source of competitiveness that only Germany can do, right and not necessarily holding on to the ones that's easily being competed away. The third one I will say is digital and digital knowledge and digital know how.

1:24:39
I think the best example, and we should be very excited about is I don't know how many of you actually buy your nutritional supplements online on Amazon. I see a few hands. Don't be shy, Nutritionals are good for you. It is good, right? So if you go to amazontodayamazon.de and then you look up for nutritionals and you see the top five brands are actually all owned by us because the manufacturers are either Glory Field or Nazana.

1:25:07
The two e-commerce companies that we bought or have shares in over the last two years. So building an e-commerce platform, leveraging a knowledge base that you know German companies and German talents have already started is what we need to do. But clearly those examples you would argue are probably not enough. So here is the opportunity and the challenge, how do we continue to identify those unique source of innovation that only Germany can do?

1:25:33
And I think that's our collective opportunity and challenge here. But do I believe in the future of Germany? Yes. Is it going to be difficult? Yeah, because there will be still some regulatory challenges and ability to really innovate faster compared to the rest of the world. But we cannot keep ourselves in, right. We got to be able to say, yeah, you got to be able to compete around the world because we are a global company. The capital is going to go where the capital return is the highest because that's what we all demand.

1:26:02
So what is that the only Germany can do? I think that's probably the most critical question that we need to continue to answer. Let's give you enough time to think about the second point, great answer, the great answer. Yeah, ultimately, I mean First off, well, Serena and I both came to Germany because we had confidence in, in the great attributes of this country, but no country can rest on its past success and and so.

1:26:32
For example, the costs in Germany that that ought to be a concern, but you have an example of Switzerland, a country that's got much higher costs and yet has thrived in in manufacturing and technology and science and life sciences. So it these things are not deterministic. Rather we by our actions and our attitudes, we we determine our future.

1:26:58
And so I think the the key is that the, you know that that the people of Bayer in Germany have to work hard to ensure that that these are the most high productive, you know, highly innovative centers in the world. And that's that that's what determines the future of of of any place you know management promises on this can be symbolic.

1:27:27
But ultimately managers executive promises don't trump the actual performance of of places over time because managers changed, managers pass on. But but the you know the performance, that's the enduring thing and that's really the the the place for for anybody who wants.

1:27:51
Job security for themselves or any site that wants job security for its its future that's the that's the way to it We we all we all face that and and the the person who asked the question about you know why to stay in pharma. I would just offer this perspective because I've been through these patent cliffs before it's no fun you know it's it's discouraging you see our sales went down instead of going up.

1:28:21
But for me, I always, I always look at the things we're doing today because you know for example, the Xarelto patents are going away. Well, you know, Xarelto was invented. Anyone in here know what year was Xarelto invented that that was OK. So 2000, so that happened 23 years ago and it was developed and it was launched when when it was at launched.

1:28:48
Yeah, 2008, OK. So 15 years ago it was launched. You know the sales of Xarelto, There's a little bit we can do about the sales of Xarelto in the next five years, but not much that is sort of deterministic.

1:29:01
Whereas what we can do is we can do something about the the success and the timing of as indexion. We can do something about the the revenues of Corindia and new Becca and and and so I come to work to affect the things that I can make an impact on and the things that that are consequences of what happened in the past.

1:29:24
You know, so I don't get too excited about the the number going up or down a little bit. It's it's more what what are we doing today. So that would be why I would stay. Thank you. We have two questions in the room and we I have to be a little bit mindful with the time because both of you have to leave rather on time. So let's take the two questions here and then slowly come to an end. So my name is Lena will come from Farmer R&D based in Vuppata.

1:29:52
Bill, you ask us to speak frankly with you whenever we think you took the wrong decisions choosing Dissoudolph of A Cologne. I'm not so sure. Secondly, I have a question, I'm not sure whether I'm reading correctly between the lines from what you're saying, but obviously we are in for changes in our operating model. Will that come along with organizational?

1:30:19
Restructuring because we had those a lot in the past and my personal view is that they have impacted very negatively on productivity. So what's your take on that? Yeah, it's, it's hard to say a, you know, a blanket prediction or something. I would say it's true that if you have a situation where you have, say too many hands.

1:30:49
Touching things or too many, too many bosses. Approving things. And you and you need to change that. You know, you may be in a situation where some of those positions get eliminated, and I don't like that at all. I I love it. I love the idea that people can get more done and have a more fulfilling career and more excitement at work. But I I don't like that part and.

1:31:17
In in my past roles I mean we found often when you rework the the way the work gets done you find that there's there's roles that that that go away but I I I couldn't say what would it look like it at Bayer. But I think yeah I but I wouldn't I wouldn't I wouldn't try to minimize that it it's it's that's a challenge thanks sure.

1:31:55
Yes, hello. Thank you that you're still taking the question. I'm Patrick from IT and my question is about that in German DAX companies, the employee representation is actually pretty strong and important. So maybe on the one hand, how much, Bill, did you were you aware beforehand about this?

1:32:14
And the second question then is moving forward as you will bring hopefully a lot of good changes to us. So how will you be your interaction and collaboration there with workers representatives, like now here's the executive committee also then the Workers Council. Yeah, yeah, I was well aware of that before I came to Bayer. In fact, in my last company, I think we had about 20,000 employees in Germany.

1:32:43
So that that that's that's not a not a novel concept and and I've addressed councils before and so yeah my my view on it is that some some people might say oh you know we we we have too much of this Co determination thing you know that that's that's really a problem. I I actually don't think like that at all. I actually think we have probably way too little Co determination.

1:33:11
Because to me, the ultimate codetermination is that the, the people of the company are determining together what needs to happen to deliver the next lifesaving medicine or the next breakthrough in agriculture. And and how are we going to make that happen twice as fast as it's happened before. That's that's what codetermination ought to look like. And if you have a company where that's happening.

1:33:41
You're going to have a company with with happy people, happy employees, happy managers, happy shareholders. And if you have a different system than that, you're going to have a company that's going to fail over time. It's that simple because we we live in a world where great products are rewarded and old products are the the prices come down.

1:34:10
And they're commoditized. And you either you innovate and you innovate faster than other companies innovate or you you go away. That's and I didn't write the rules. None of us did that. That's how it works. The good news is we can do that. We can do that. We absolutely can do that. And I think if if you if you think about a system like the one I described with.

1:34:39
You know groups of three to to 8 to 15 working on the most important products and by the way that that can be in product development, it can be in research, it can be in countries in in customer facing rules and and you have something like that where every 90 days you're setting the priorities, people are moving to the most important priorities.

1:35:04
You're delivering results for customers. You're delivering results in the pipeline and and you don't have this sort of static once a year cycle with gaming and right. I mean and and you and you have two companies and one's one's got the the hierarchical model, the static model the once a year with the gaming and the other one's doing what I said who's going to win, who's going to win and we can do this.

1:35:34
It's a huge change, but it it this is the, this is the this is the question that we have to confront ourselves with. Are we, are we going to continue to invest in the old system or we going to, are we going to create a new system that can deliver for the mission, for the customer, for the employees, for the shareholders, for Germany, for the world?

1:36:02
And that's why I came here. I I think we can do that. I think. I think it'll be an amazing journey. It'll be hard, but there will be, there'll be a lot of a lot of things to celebrate on the way. So I I hope, we hope we can do it. Thank you. Yeah.

1:36:26
These were perfect final words. So thank you very much for sharing this. And I think we have understood that there is some change to come, but we also understood that you are not doing this in your own office and pull it over us.

1:36:42
But we consult us, will listen to us and we'll share your ideas, not only the basic things you are doing today, but also if it comes to a little bit more detailed ideas or whatsoever so that we can perhaps jointly shape things in the right way, bringing the bear culture to you ideas and see how this is matching really to a good future. So thanks to both of you very, very much on behalf of the concept, but here also in the entire community to spend your time today was really, really exciting. So thank you very much and yeah.

1:37:12
Thank you and thanks all of you. Thank you. Thank you.
